Exerpts from Arianna Huffington books

http://www.goodreads.com/author/quotes/27082.Arianna_Huffington
https://www.goodreads.com/work/quotes/32695230-thrive-the-third-metric-to-redefining-success-and-creating-a-life-of-we

A friend of mine has a ritual: He writes a poem every day with his morning coffee.
A New Blueprint: Time to Renovate the Architecture of Our Lives
A purpose of human life, no matter who is controlling it, is to love whoever is around to be loved.
A study conducted at Harvard Medical School found that people who got more sleep than the bare minimum they needed increased the volume of gray matter in their brains, which is linked to improved psychological health.
A study funded by the National Institutes of Health showed a 23 percent decrease in mortality in people who meditated versus those who did not.
According to a 2011 Gallup poll, the more money you have, the more likely you are to suffer from time famine.
According to a study from the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, sleep deprivation reduces our emotional intelligence, self-regard, assertiveness, sense of independence, empathy toward others, the quality of our interpersonal relationships, positive thinking, and impulse control. In fact, the only thing the study found that gets better with sleep deprivation is “magical thinking” and reliance on superstition. So if you’re interested in fortune-telling, go ahead and burn the midnight oil.
And every day, the world will drag you by the hand, yelling, “This is important! And this is important! And this is important! You need to worry about this! And this! And this!” And each day, it’s up to you to yank your hand back, put it on your heart and say, “No. This is what’s important.”
And when we’re living a life of perpetual time famine, we rob ourselves of our ability to experience another key element of the Third Metric: wonder, our sense of delight in the mysteries of the universe, as well as the everyday occurrences and small miracles that fill our lives.
And whenever I’d complain or was upset about something in my own life, my mother had the same advice: “Darling, just change the channel. You are in control of the clicker. Don’t replay the bad, scary movie.
And yet we spend so much time and effort and energy on those résumé entries—entries that lose all significance as soon as our heart stops beating.
Artemis is freedom—wild, untrammelled, aloof from all entanglements. She is a huntress, a dancer, the goddess of nature and wildness, a virgin physically and, even more important, a virgin psychologically, inviolable, belonging to no one, defined by no relationship, confined by no bond.
As Nicholas Kristof put it in The New York Times: “Cues of a hostile or indifferent environment flood an infant, or even a fetus, with stress hormones like cortisol in ways that can disrupt the body’s metabolism or the architecture of the brain. The upshot is that children are sometimes permanently undermined. Even many years later, as adults, they are more likely to suffer heart disease, obesity, diabetes and other physical ailments. They are also more likely to struggle in school, have short tempers and tangle with the law.
Being connected in a shallow way to the entire world can prevent us from being deeply connected to those closest to us—including ourselves.
Bring ourselves back to that place of stillness, imperturbability, and loving—until it becomes second nature to return quickly to what is our true nature.
Eighty percent of those she examined were found to have periods of "email apnea".
Essayist and philosopher Alain de Botton describes art as 'an apothecary for the soul'.
Everything is connected to everything else: every rock, every living form, is infused by the same force. To say this is to put the lie to a million false dualities, to all the forced seperations between spirit and mind, soul and body, God and man.
Everything you do, you’ll do better with a good night’s sleep,
Expressing gratitude for even the smallest kindnesses shown to me.
For a long time it had seemed to me that life was about to begin—real life. But there was always some obstacle in the way.  Something to be got through first, some unfinished business, time still to be served, a debt to be repaid. Then life would begin. At last it dawned on me that these obstacles were my life.
Human beings cannot distinguish between real dangers and imagined ones.
I can change nearly everything about myself.  I can run from my children and trade in my spouse, move to another country and raise green rabbits for a living, but unless I care for my soul, I will not have changed who I am.
I do not try to dance better than anyone else. I only try to dance better than myself.
I talk a lot about learning to become fearless in your approach to life. But fearlessness is not the absence of fear. It's the mastery of fear. It's all about getting up one more time than you fall down.
I think that when people hear the president [George W. Bush] speak, frankly, they think he's really stupid. But what people don't realize is that there's a genius behind that stupidity, and that genius is Harlan McCraney.
If you look at the best research on parenting, it comes down to one thing and one thing only. Not what you teach your children or how much time you spend with them, or if you read to them or not. What it comes down to is who you are, because we teach who we are. You read, your child will read. You watch too much TV, your child will. You do service in the world, your child will do service in the world. So the best way to get past all the worries is to be the best you that you can be. And forgive yourself when you are not. And not to hold unrealistic expectations of your children when you are in no way showing them the behavior you demand from them. Be an example to yourself that your child can be proud of.
If you take care of your mind, you take care of the world.
In December 2013, a tourist in Melbourne fell off a pier and plunged into the sea while checking Facebook on her phone. She still had it in her hand when she was rescued.
A way of being that gives you the resources to deal with the ups and downs of life.
Nowhere can a person find a more peaceful and trouble-free retreat than in his own mind.
It is the Fourth Instinct (the spirit - RJ) that urges us to exceed ourselves ... by awakening our intuitive selves, and striving to be all that we were intended to be. It takes us beyond self-centeredness and enables us to resist the combined forces of indifference and meaninglessness. It awakens us to a sense of responsibility for those most in need of our society as well as for that world that future generations will inherit.
it is very telling what we don’t hear in eulogies. We almost never hear things like: “The crowning achievement of his life was when he made senior vice president.” Or: “He increased market share for his company multiple times during his tenure.” Or: “She never stopped working. She ate lunch at her desk. Every day.” Or: “He never made it to his kid’s Little League games because he always had to go over those figures one more time.” Or: “While she didn’t have any real friends, she had six hundred Facebook friends, and she dealt with every email in her in-box every night.” Or: “His PowerPoint slides were always meticulously prepared.” Our eulogies are always about the other stuff: what we gave, how we connected, how much we meant to our family and friends, small kindnesses, lifelong passions, and the things that made us laugh.
It matters, it matters very much, what each of us chooses to do. The journey toward self-discovery and self-knowledge is not only life's highest adventure, but also the only way to transform society from one based on self-centeredness and compulsory compassion to one based on service and mutual responsibility.
It’s not ‘What do I want to do?’, it’s ‘What kind of life do I want to have?’
It's a longing, an aching to complete ourselves, to unite with that which makes us whole. We are longing for God the way a soldier longs for his wife faraway. It a relentless homesickness that, however desperately we try, will accept no substitutes.
Just as money can’t buy happiness, neither can it buy time affluence.
Lasting social change unfolds from inside out: from the inner to the outer being, from inner to outer realities.
Live fuller, more complete lives, aligned with what matters: A life that isn’t defined by our salaries and résumés.
Making money and doing good in the world are not mutually exclusive.
Meditation "a reboot for your brain and your soul".
Meditation is not about stopping thoughts, but recognizing that we are more than our thoughts and our feelings.
Moving ourselves to the background and others to the foreground is evidence that the (spiritual) search is achieving its purpose.
Music can reach those places where words alone can’t go.
My mother was a continual source of wisdom and great advice...she taught me that there is always a way around a problem-you've just got to find it. Keep trying doors; one will eventually open. She also taught me to accept failure as part and parcel of life. It's not the opposite of success; it's an integral part of success.
No matter where you go, there you are.
One company that did wake up to the importance of employee health was Safeway. The supermarket chain’s former CEO Steve Burd recounts that in 2005 Safeway’s health care bill hit $1 billion and was going up by $100 million a year. “What we discovered was that 70 percent of health care costs are driven by people’s behaviors,” he says. “Now as a business guy, I thought if we could influence the behavior of our 200,000-person workforce, we could have a material effect on health care costs.
One of the most popular classes Google offers employees is known as SIY, which is an acronym for “Search Inside Yourself.
Onward, upward and inward.
Our most meaningful relationships are based on a longing for expansion rather than a preoccupation with comfort and security. To live exuberantly—to fully know and be fully known by another—we must be prepared to illuminate the dark spots in our most intimate relationships and in our selves.
Peeping Toms at the "keyhole of eternity"
Pessimism is a denial of the reality of God and the power man draws from being connected to it.
Predictable time off (PTO), in which you take a planned night off—no email, no work, no smartphone.
Rob yourself of sleep and you’ll find you do not function at your personal best.
Sherry Turkle, MIT professor and author of Alone Together, has written about the cost of constantly documenting—i.e., photographing—our lives. These interruptions, she writes, “make it hard to settle into serious conversations with ourselves and with other people because emotionally, we keep ourselves available to be taken away from everything.” And by so-obsessively documenting our experiences, we never truly have them.
So great becomes the fear of losing what we have that many of us rush back to hide under the temporary shelter of convention rather than follow the path of self-discovery wherever it might lead. Given adequate time and sufficient fear, we may hide so long that we hardly notice we're slowly suffocating.
Socrates defines his life’s mission as awakening the Athenians to the supreme importance of attending to their souls. His timeless plea that we connect to ourselves remains the only way for any of us to truly thrive.
Socrates said, "the unexamined life is not worth living".
Sometimes people let the same problem make them miserable for years when they could just say "so what." That’s one of my favorite things to say.
Taoist philosophy, "Rest is prior to motion and stillness prior to action".
Ten thousand flowers in spring, the moon in autumn, a cool breeze in summer, snow in winter. If your mind isn’t clouded by unnecessary things, this is the best season of your life.
The average smartphone user checks his or her device every six and a half minutes.
The ease with which the big crises can wipe out the small ones that seemed so critical just a moment before. All of our small anxieties and trivial preoccupations evaporate with the sudden recognition of what really matters. We are reminded of the impermanence of much that we assume is forever and the value of so much we take for granted.
The greatest weapon against stress is our ability to choose one thought over another.
The harder we press on a violin string, the less we can feel it. The louder we play, the less we hear.… If I “try” to play, I fail; if I race, I trip. The only road to strength is vulnerability.
The ideas and emotions people carry with them through life often determine the quality of their death.
The poet Mark Nepo defines sacrifice as “giving up with reverence and compassion what no longer works in order to stay close to what is sacred.” So recognizing when habits are no longer working for us and sacrificing them is a cornerstone of wisdom.
The purpose of death is the release of love.
The quest for knowledge may be pursued at higher speeds with smarter tools today, but wisdom is found no more readily than it was three thousand years ago in the court of King Solomon.
The word “deadline” has its American origin in Civil War prison camps. 
Those at the top of the income spectrum are among the most likely to be time-poor.
Those who have matured spiritually, now put service to others at the center of their quest and of their lives.
To live the lives we truly want and deserve, and not just the lives we settle for, we need a Third Metric, a third measure of success that goes beyond the two metrics of money and power, and consists of four pillars: well-being, wisdom, wonder, and giving.
To really find God is to search for him not only in ourselves, not only in our loved ones, not only in our neighbors, not only in the strangers that we encounter, but ultimately in our enemies as well.
To speak about this universal force that will lead us beyond on the last horizon of our known self toward a wiser, more loving, more luminous states of being, we do not need to invent a new language. But we do need to listen to the old, the ancient one, not with our jaded minds, but with our awakened souls.
To truly redefine success we need to redefine our relationship with death.
Today we often use deadlines—real and imaginary—to imprison ourselves.
Too many of us leave our lives—and, in fact, our souls—behind when we go to work.
Treat people like family, and they will be loyal and give their all.
True understanding is to see the events of life in this way: “You are here for my benefit, though rumor paints you otherwise.” And everything is turned to one’s advantage when he greets a situation like this: You are the very thing I was looking for. Truly whatever arises in life is the right material to bring about your growth and the growth of those around you. This, in a word, is art—and this art called “life” is a practice suitable to both men and gods. Everything contains some special purpose and a hidden blessing; what then could be strange or arduous when all of life is here to greet you like an old and faithful friend? I had a dream many years ago that sums up this thought in a different way, one that has become a sustaining metaphor for me. I am on a train going home to God. (Bear with me!) It’s a long journey, and everything that happens in my life is scenery along the way. Some of it is beautiful; I want to linger over it awhile, perhaps hold on to it or even try to take it with me. Other parts of the journey are spent grinding through a barren, ugly countryside. Either way the train moves on. And pain comes whenever I cling to the scenery, beautiful or ugly, rather than accept that all the scenery is grist for the mill, containing, as Marcus Aurelius counseled us, some hidden purpose and a hidden blessing. My family, of course, is on board with me. Beyond our families, we choose who is on the train with us, who we share our journey with. The people we invite on the train are those with whom we are prepared to be vulnerable and real, with whom there is no room for masks and games. They strengthen us when we falter and remind us of the journey’s purpose when we become distracted by the scenery. And we do the same for them. Never let life’s Iagos—flatterers, dissemblers—onto your train. We always get warnings from our heart and our intuition when they appear, but we are often too busy to notice. When you realize they’ve made it on board, make sure you usher them off the train; and as soon as you can, forgive them and forget them. There is nothing more draining than holding grudges.
Turn off all notifications; you should control when you want information, not the reverse.
Two thousand children under the age of five die every day from diseases that could have been prevented with clean water and proper sanitation. 
Use it or lose it" is a law of nature, but mercifully "not a soul will be lost" is a law of the spirit that supersedes it.
We all have within us the ability to move from struggle to grace.
We are not on this earth to accumulate victories, things, and experiences, but to be whittled and sandpapered until what’s left is who we truly are.
We can only achieve true wisdom when our soul is liberated from our bodies by death.
We forget we’re mostly water till the rain falls and every atom in our body starts to go home.
We may not be able to witness our own eulogy, but we’re actually writing it all the time, every day.
We think, mistakenly, that success is the result of the amount of time we put in at work, instead of the quality of time we put in.
What is success? It is being able to go to bed each night with your soul at peace.
What Women's Lib might achieve if their 'consciousness raising' - or in plain English, brainwashing— campaign succeeds is a society whose members have identical roles but are perpetually at war with themselves; a society of males made neurotic by suppressed masculinity, of females made miserable by having masculine roles thrust upon them that contradict their feminine impulses.
Why do we spend so much of our limited time on this earth focusing on all the things that our eulogies will never cover?
Why worry about minor little details like clean air, clean water, safe ports and the safety net when Jesus is going to give the world an "Extreme Makeover: Planet Edition" right after he finishes putting Satan in his place once and for all?
Worry is a form of atheism. And so is most fear.
You are not your bank account, or your ambitiousness. You’re not the cold clay lump with a big belly you leave behind when you die. You’re not your collection of walking personality disorders. You are spirit, you are love.
You learn to speak by speaking, to study by studying, to run by running, to work by working; and just so you learn to love … by loving.

